French to English
Operational system (Systran)
 at Commission of the European Communities, in 1981
Source
Pigott, Ian M. (1982): ‘The importance of feedback from translators in the development of high-quality machine translation’. In: Lawson, Veronica (ed.) Practical experience of machine translation: Proceedings of a conference, London, 5-6 November 1981. (Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1982), 61-73.
A. Original French text
Application de la micrologique au contrôle des opérations de production.
Travaux exécutés au cours de l’année et résultats essentiels:
1) Application au central de télésurveillance d’engins sur pneus. Il s’agit d’un matériel à microprocesseur qui est chargé de traiter les informations fournies par un appareillage de détection de passage d’engins sur pneus (D.P.E.) Il édite des rapports de poste et de journée indiquant la durée et l’importance relative des périodes consacrées par chaque engin surveillé aux diverses activités possibles: évacuation des produits, transport de matériel, entretien, station service … ainsi que le nombre de godets de charbon évacués. Des renseignements globaux cumulés par engin ou par activité sont également fournis. La programmation du microprocesseur a été réalisée au cours de l’année 1980 et le matériel installé aux houillères d’Aquitaine dans les premiers jours de janvier 1981.
B. Unedited output from Systran, 1981
Application of micrological to the control of the production operations.
Work carried out during the year and essential results:
1) Application to the exchange of télésurveillance of equipment on tyres. It is a matter of an equipment with microprocessor which is charged to treat the information provided by an equipment of equipment passage detection on tyres (D.P.E.) It publishes station and day reports indicating the duration and the importance relative of the periods devoted by each instrument supervised to the various possible activities: evacuation of the products, transport of equipment, maintenance, station service … as well as the number of evacuated coal cups. A total information cumulated by instrument or activity also is provided. The programming of the microprocessor was achieved during the year 1980 and the installed equipment to the mines of Aquitaine in the first January 1981 days.
C (a). Unedited output from Systran Personal 4.0, 2003
Application of microprocessing terminology to the control of the operations of production.
Work carried out during the year and significant results: 
1) Application to the remote monitoring station of tyred vehicles. It is about a microprocessor-based setup which is charged to process the data provided by a tyred vehicle traffic recorder (D.P.E.) It publishes reports/ratios of shift and day indicating the duration and the importance relating of the periods devoted by each machine monitored to the various possible activities: evacuation of the products, transport of material, maintenance, service station… as well as the number of evacuated buckets. Overall information cumulated by machine or activity is also provided. The programming of the microprocessor was carried out during the year 1980 and the material installed at the collieries of Aquitaine in early January 1981.
C (b). Unedited output from Babelfish, January 2003
Application of microprocessing terminology to the control of the operations of production.
Work carried out during the year and significant results:
1) Application to the remote monitoring station of tyred vehicles. It is about a microprocessor-based setup which is charged to process the data provided by a tyred vehicle traffic recorder (D.P.E.) It publishes reports/ratios of shift and day indicating the duration and the importance relating of the periods devoted by each machine monitored to the various possible activities: evacuation of the products, transport of material, maintenance, service station... as well as the number of evacuated buckets. Overall information cumulated by machine or activity is also provided. The programming of the microprocessor was carried out during the year 1980 and the material installed at the collieries of Aquitaine in early January 1981. 
C (c). Unedited output from Lycos, Jan 2003
Application of microprocessing terminology to the control of the operations of production. 
Work carried out during the year and significant results: 
1) Application to the remote monitoring station of tyred vehicles. It acts of a microprocessor-based setup which is charged to process the data provided by a tyred vehicle traffic recorder (D.P.E.) It publishes reports/ratios of shift and day indicating the duration and the importance relative of the periods devoted by each machine monitored to the various possible activities: evacuation of the products, transport of material, maintenance, service station... as well as the number of evacuated buckets. Overall information cumulated by machine or activity is also provided. The programming of the microprocessor was carried out during the year 1980 and the material installed at the collieries of Aquitaine in early January 1981.
C (d). Unedited output from FreeTranslation, January 2003
Application of the micrologique to the check of the production operations. 
Executed works during the course of the year and essential results:
1) Application to the exchange of télésurveillance of vehicles on tires.  It is a matter of an equipment to microprocesseur that is loaded to treat information furnished by a detection casting off of passage of vehicles on tires (D.P.E.)  It edits post reports and of day indicating the length and relative importance of the periods consecrated by overseen every vehicle to the various possible activities: discharge of the products, equipment transportation, maintenance, station service... as well as the number of godets of evacuated coals.  Global pieces of information combined by vehicle or by activity are equally furnished.  The programming of the microprocesseur was realized during the course of the year 1980 and installed equipment to the coal ones of aquitaine in the first days of January 1981.
C (e). Unedited output from Reverso Online, March 2003
Application of the micrologic in the control of the operations of production.
Works executed during the year and essential results:
1) Application to the exchange of electronic surveillance of machines on tires. It is about a material with microprocessor which is in charge of treating(handling) the information supplied by an equipment of detection of passage of machines on tires ( D.P.E). He(it) publishes(edits) reports(connections) of post(post office) and of day indicating the duration and the relative importance of periods dedicated by every machine watched in the different possible activities: evacuation of products, transport of material, interview(maintenance), station service as well as counts him(it) of evacuated jars(gores) of coal. Global information accumulated by machine or by activity is also supplied. The programming of the microprocessor was realized during year 1980 and the material installed(settled) to the coalmines of Aquitaine in the first days of January, 1981.
C (f). Unedited output from InterTran, March 2003
Application any micrologique at the contrôle operations about output. 
Jobs executed during l’année and findings essential : 
1) Application at the cash account about télésurveillance d’engins about tyres. He fret d'un material at microprocessor thanksggiving am fraught with deal with the information afforded by a equipment about detection about changeover d’engins about tyres (DPE) He edit any connections about mail and about day declare her duration and the amount comparative any full-stop bestow by any device guarded at the diverse activities likely : disposal any making , carriage about material , maintenance , static section … as well as the number about godets about coal évacués. Any directory enquiries aggregate cumulés by device or by activity they are also affording. Her computer programming any microprocessor has been achieved during l’année 1980 and him material based at the houillères d’Aquitaine at the capital days about January 1981.
C (g). Unedited output from Language Force, 1999
1) Application to the central of télésurveillance of sour devices tires.  It is a question of a gross to microprocesseur who is accused to deal the thick informations by one accessories of detection of passage of sour devices tires (FROM.  P.  E.  ) He edits of the accounts of appointment and of indicating day the duration and the importance relative clause of the periods consecrated by each device watched over to the various possible activities: clearance of the commodities, burst of equipment, co  Aggregate indications cumulés by device or by activity are equally furnished.  The programming of the microprocesseur has been achieved during the year 1980 and the equipment installed to the coal pits from Aquitaine in the first days of january 1981.  
