French-English
Operational system (Systran) at Kernforschungszentrum, 1984
Source:
Habermann, F.W.A. report on use of Systran at Karlsruhe Nuclear Centre in ‘Product forum’, Translation and Communication: Translating and the Computer 6, ed. Catriona Picken (London: Aslib 1985) p.126
A. Original French text
L’analyse de l’essai CABRI était difficile en raison des effets bidimensionnels du mouvement et de la perturbation apportée par la cage de centrage. Le code a retrouvé l’instant et l’endroit où s’amorce le mouvement et le fait que celui-ci est d’abord ascendant. La propagation du front de fusion et la hauteur de la zone fondue ont été calculées à 7% près. De plus comme dans l’expérience on constate que la relocalisation se fait à l’intérieur de la zone fondue, c’est-à-dire dans la partie fissile (faible pénétration de l’acier liquide sur la gaine intacte) et que les centreurs constituent une zone de resolidification préférentielle. Par contre le calcul n’a pas retrouvé la fusion des centreurs qui a pourtant été observée. Par ailleurs on peut vérifier sur la figure 32 que si l’emplacement de certains bouchons est correct, d’autres n’ont pas été retrouvés; mais ceci est lié à des particularités de l’expérience qui ne se retrouveront pas en réacteur. On peut donc considérer que ces essais ont permis de qualifier le code ALFA; des essais complémentaires permettront de préciser l’effet des centreurs (essais MONOBRI) et de l’irradiation (essais CABRI). Par ailleurs ils ont permis d’établir plusieurs points dont nous verrons l’importance pour l’application au réacteur:
....
Dans B3 au contraire par suite de la déformation de la gaine, la pression interne a été réduite à une valeur très proche de la pression régnant dans le canal. La masse éjectée est alors inférieure à 1 g, valeur qui ne peut être vérifiée expérimentalement puisqu’elle se situe au-dessous de la limite de sensibilité de l’hodoscope. Néanmoins, en l’attente de résultats de confirmation, nous pouvons considérer le calcul d’éjection comme correct.
	En ce qui concerne l’interaction on admet que la masse de combustible éjectée se fragmente instantanément et que la zone d’interaction est homogène en température, pression et taux de vide. Les deux paramètres du calcul sont le rayon des grains (actuellement pris égal à 100) et la hauteur de la zone d’interaction Z1. Dans le cas de A3 la valeur Z1=10 cm permet de retrouver correctement l’évolution du débit inférieur (figure 35). Par contre c’est la valeur Z1=1 qu’il faut utiliser pour obtenir le même type de résultats dans B3 (figure 36).
B. Unedited output from Systran, 1984
The analysis of the CABRI test B1 was difficult owing to the two-dimensional effects of the movement and of the perturbation brought by the cage of centering. The code found the moment and the place when starts the movement and the fact that this one is initially ascending. The propagation of the front of fusion and the height of the melted zone were calculated with a margin of 7%. Moreover as in the experience it is noted that the relocalisation is done inside the melted zone, i.e. in the fissile part (small penetration of molten steel on the intact clad) and that the centring devices constitute  preferential resolidification zone. On the other hand calculation did not find the fusion of the centring devices who however was observed. In addition one can check on figure 32 only if the site of some plugs is correct, others were not found; but this is connected with characteristics of the experience who will not be found in reactor. One thus can consider that these tests allowed to qualify the ALFA code; complementary tests will make it possible to specify the effect of the centring devices (MONOBRI test) and of the irradiation (CABRI tests). In addition they allowed to draw up several points of which we will see the importance for the application to the reactor.
....
In B3 on the contrary in consequence of the deformation of the clad, the internal pressure was reduced to a value very close to the pressure reigning in the channel. The ejected mass is then lower than 1 g, value who cannot be checked in experiments since it is located below the limit of sensitivity of the hodoscope. Nevertheless, in waiting of results of confirmation, we can consider the ejection calculation like correct.
	With regard to the interaction it is admitted that the ejected fuel mass splits up instantaneously and that the interaction zone is homogeneous in temperature, pressure and rates of vacuum. Both parameters of calculation are the radius of the grains (currently taken equal to 100) and height of the zone of interaction Z1. In the case of A3 the value Z1=10 cm makes it possible to find correctly the evolution of the higher flow and the beginning of the evolution of the lower flow (figure 35). On the other hand it is the value Z1=1 that it is necessary to use to obtain the same type of results in B3 (figure 36).
C. Unedited output from Systran Personal 4.0, 2002
The analysis of the CABRI test was difficult because of the two-dimensional effects of the movement and the disturbance brought by the cage of centering. The code found the moment and the place where starts the movement and the fact that this one is initially ascending. The propagation of the face of fusion and the height of the molten zone were calculated with a margin of 7%. Moreover as in the experiment one notes that the relocalization is made inside the melted zone, i.e. in the fissile part (weak penetration of molten steel on the intact sheath) and that the centring devices constitute a zone of preferential resolidification. On the other hand calculation did not find the fusion of the centring devices which was however observed. In addition one can check on figure 32 that if the site of certain stoppers is correct, others were not found; but this is related to characteristics of the experiment which will not be found out of engine. One can thus consider that these tests made it possible to qualify the code ESPARTO; complementary tests will make it possible to specify the effect of the centring devices (tests MONOBRI) and the irradiation (CABRI tests). In addition they made it possible to draw up several points of which we will see the importance for the application to the engine:
[.....]
In B3 on the contrary in consequence of the deformation of the sheath, the internal pressure was reduced to a value very close to the pressure reigning in the channel. The ejected mass is then lower than 1 G, value which cannot be checked in experiments since it is located below the limit of sensitivity of the hodoscope. Nevertheless, in waiting of results of confirmation, we can regard the calculation of ejection as correct. With regard to the interaction one admits that the fuel mass ejected splits up instantaneously and that the zone of interaction is homogeneous in temperature, pressure and rate of vacuum. The two parameters of calculation are the ray of the grains (currently taken equal to 100) and the height of the zone of Z1. interaction In the case of A3 the value Z1=10 cm makes it possible to find the evolution of the lower flow correctly (figure 35). On the other hand it is the Z1=1 value which it is necessary to use to obtain the same type of results in B3 (figure 36).
