German to English
Operational system (Globalink GTS 2.0), in 1990
Two examples
Source 
Essex MT Evaluation Group: Assessing a PC-based commercial MT system. University of Essex, Department of Language and Linguistics, January 30,1991. (Working Papers in Language Processing no.19)]
[NB. German texts translated originally by human translators from English]
=========
Example 1.
A. Original German text
Einführung.
1.0 	Die Automatisierung des Übersetzungsprozesses.
	Seit über zwei Jahrzehnten bemühen sich experten, Methoden zur Automatisierung des oftmals zeitraubenden und einförmigen Übersetzungsprozesses zu entwickeln. Die existierenden Systeme werden üblicherweise als automatische Übersetzung (machine translation ([MT]), Computer-unterstützte Übersetzung (computer-assisted translation [CAT]), oder Maschinen-unterstützte Übersetzung (machine-assisted translation [MAT]) bezeichnet. Diese führen Funktionen durch, die sich von der automatischen Nachschlagefunktion in Wörterbüchern (mit deren Hilfe ein im Computer gespeichertes Wörterbuch der Ausgangssprache nach entsprechenden Ausdrücken in der Zielsprache abgesucht wird) bis zu interaktiven Übersetzungshilfsleistungen unterschiedlicher Art erstrecken. Doch erst während der letzten zehn Jahre ist es gelungen, die Automatisierung des teuren Übersetzungsprozesses aus der experimentellen Phase herauszuführen und in der Praxis umzusetzen.
	Computerprogramme, die Übersetzungen erzeugen, sind ein nützliches Werkzeug und Hilfsmittel, stellen jedoch kein völlig automatisiertes Verfahren dar, das die Rolle des Übersetzers übernehmen könnte. Das Globalink Translation System kann also den hochqualifizierten Übersetzer nicht ersetzen. Allerdings steigert GTS die Produktivität eines Übersetzers, der an langen, fachsprachlichen Texten arbeitet, verkürzt seine Arbeitszeit und verbessert die Genauigkeit seiner Übersetzung. Das System dient ebenfalls der zeitsparenden Anfertigung von Übersetzungsentwürfen, wenn es lediglich darum geht, den allgemeinen Sinn eines Schriftstückes zu erfassen.
B. Unedited outoput from GTS 2.0, 1990
@@Einführung
1.0	The automation of the translation process.
	Since over two decades strive experts, to develop methods for the automation of the often time-consuming and uniform translation process.
	The existing systems are marked usually as automatic translation (@@machine @@translation [@@MT]), computer-supported translation (@@computer-@@assisted @@translation [@@CAT]), or machines – supported translation (machine-assisted @@translation [@@MAT]). 	These accomplish functions, which extend by the automatic @@Nachschlagefunktion in dictionaries (with their help a dictionary stored in the computer of the source language after corresponding expressions in the goal language is searched) up to interactive translation auxiliary performances different kind. However first during the last ten years it has been successful, the automation the @@teuren of translation process from the experimental phase @@herauszuführen and to sell in the practice.
	Computer programs, the translations produce, an useful tool and resource are, present however no fully automated process, which could take over the role of the translator. The Globalink @@Translation system can not replace therefore the highly qualified translator. Indeed GTS raises the productivity of a translator, who shortens at long, @@fachsprachlichen texts works, his work time and improves the precision of his translation. The system serves likewise the time-saving @@Anfertigung of draft translations, if it goes solely about it, to record the general sense of a document.
C (a). Unedited output from Globalink Power Translator, 1994
Introduction.
1.0 The automation the @@Übersetzungsprozesses.
Since over two decades strive @@experten, to develop methods for the
automation the often time-consuming and uniform @@Übersetzungsprozesses.  The existing systems are marked usually as automatic translation (@@machine @@translation (([@@MT]), computers - supported translation (computer-assisted @@translation [@@CAT]), or machines - supported translation (machine-assisted @@translation [@@MAT]).  These accomplish functions, which extend by the automatic @@Nachschlagefunktion in dictionaries (with their help a dictionary stored in the computer of the source language after corresponding expressions in the target language is searched) up to interactive @@Übersetzungshilfsleistungen different kind.  However first during the last ten years it has been successful, the automation the expensive @@Übersetzungsprozesses from the experimental phase @@herauszuführen and to sell in the practice.
@@Computerprogramme, the translations produce, an useful tool and resource are, present however no fully automated process, which could take over the role of the translator.  The Globalink @@Translation system can not replace therefore the highly qualified translator.  Indeed GTS raises the productivity of a translator, who works on long, technical texts, shortens his working hours and improves the precision of his translation. The system serves likewise the time-saving making of draft translations, if it goes solely about it, to record the general sense of a document. 
C (b). Unedited output from Systran Personal 4.0, 2002
Introduction. 
1.0 the automation of the translation process. 
	For over two decades experts strive to develop methods for the automation of the often time-consuming and monotonous translation process. The existing systems are usually called automatic translation (machine translation ([ MT ]), computer-aided translation (computer assisted translation [ CAT ]), or machine-aided translation (machine assisted translation [ MAT ]). These accomplish functions, which from the automatic looking up function in dictionaries (with their assistance a dictionary of the source language after appropriate expressions in the target language, stored in the computer, is searched) up to interactive translation auxiliary achievements of different kind to extend. But only during the last ten years succeeded to lead out and converting in practice the automation of the expensive translation process from the experimental phase.
	Computer programs, which produce translations, are a useful tool and aid, represent however no completely automated procedure, which could take over the role of the translator. The Globalink translation system cannot replace thus the highly-qualified translator. However GTS increases the productivity of a translator, that is enough on, specializedlinguistic texts works, shortens its work time and improves the accuracy of its translation. The system serves likewise the time-saving preparation of translation drafts, if it concerns only to seize the general sense of a document.
C (b). Unedited output from Babelfish, 2003
Introduction. 
1.0 the automation of the translation process. 
For over two decades experts strive to develop methods for the automation of the often time-consuming and monotonous translation process. The existing systems are usually called automatic translation (machine translation ([ MT ]), computer-aided translation (computer assisted translation [ CAT ]), or machine-aided translation (machine assisted translation [ MAT ]). These accomplish functions, which from the automatic looking up function in dictionaries (with their assistance a dictionary of the source language after appropriate expressions in the target language, stored in the computer, is searched) up to interactive translation auxiliary achievements of different kind to extend. But only during the last ten years succeeded to lead out and converting in practice the automation of the expensive translation process from the experimental phase. 
Computer programs, which produce translations, are a useful tool and aid, represent however no completely automated procedure, which could take over the role of the translator. The Globalink translation system cannot replace thus the highly-qualified translator. However GTS increases the productivity of a translator, that is enough on, specializedlinguistic texts works, shortens its work time and improves the accuracy of its translation. The system serves likewise the time-saving preparation of translation drafts, if it concerns only, the general sense of a document to seize 
C (c). Unedited output from FreeTranslation, 2003
Introduction.  
1.0 the automation of the translation process.  
For more than two decades have stroe expert to develop methods to the automation of the translation process time-consuming and uniform often.  The existing systems become usually as an automatic translation (machine translation ([MT]), computer supported translation (computer assisted translation [CAT]), or machines supported translation (machine-assisted translation [RENTED]) designates.  These carry out extend itself functions, that of the automatic Nachschlagefunktion in dictionaries (with its aid an in the computer stored dictionary of the exit language after corresponding expressions in the target language searched becomes) to interactive translation auxiliary achievements of different type.  Yet first during the last ten years, it is arrive to transfer the automation of the expensive translation process out of the experimental phase herauszuführen and in the practice.
The computer programs which produce translations are useful tools and aid, however, represent no completely automatical procedure which could take over the roll(role) of the translator. The Globalink translation system cannot replace for the highly-qualified translator. But GTS increases the productivity of a translator who works on long, technical texts, his(its) working hours shorten and improve the exactness of his(its) translation. The system also serves the timesaving preparation of translation drafts if it is a matter only of grasping(registering) the general sense of a document.
C (d). Unedited output from Personal Translator PT, 2002
Introduction.
1.0 	The automation of the translation process.
	For over two decades experts do their best to develop methods for the automation of the often time-consuming and uniform translation process. The existing systems normally are (machine translatory movement ([MT]), computer supported translation (computer assisted translatory movement [CAT]) or translation machines supported (machine-assisted translatory movement [MAT]) describes as an automatic translation. These carry out functions which extend of the automatic after beating function in dictionaries (with whose help a dictionary of the source language saved in the computer is searched over according to corresponding expressions in the target language) until interactive translation help performances of different manner. But it has turned out well only during the last ten years to realize the automation of the expensive translation process from the experimental phase herauszuführen and in the practice.
	Computer programs which produce translations are a useful tool and aids, don't represent any completely automated method, however, which could take on the role of the translator. So the Globalink translatory movement system cannot replace the highly qualified translator. Does GTS increase the productivity of a translator, which at long, technical texts works, shortens its working time and improves the precision of its translation, though. The system also serves the timesaving making of translation outlines if it is all about merely to include the general meaning of a paper.
C (e). Unedited output from Reverso On-Line, 2003
Introduction.
1.0 the automation of the translation process.
 For over two decades experts try to develop methods of the automation of the often time-consuming and monotonous translation process. The existing systems are usually called automatic translation (machine translation ([MT]), Computer-assisted translation (computer assisted translation [CAT]), or engines-supported translation (machine-assisted translation [MAT]). These execute functions which apply from the automatic second helping function in dictionaries (with whose help a dictionary stored in the computer of the source language is searched for appropriate expressions in the target language) up to interactive translation auxiliary performances of different kind(way). But only during the last ten years one has succeeded in taking out the automation of the expensive translation process from the experimental phase and in moving in the practice.
The computer programs which produce translations are useful tools and aid, however, represent no completely automatical procedure which could take over the roll(role) of the translator. The Globalink translation system cannot replace for the highly-qualified translator. But GTS increases the productivity of a translator who works on long, technical texts, his(its) working hours shorten and improve the exactness of his(its) translation. The system also serves the timesaving preparation of translation drafts if it is a matter only of grasping(registering) the general sense of a document.
C (f). Unedited output from InterTran, 2003
Introduction 
1.0 The automate of the Übersetzungsprozesses. 
Since over two decade take trouble himself experts , modes to the automate of the often time-consuming and uniform Übersetzungsprozesses to develop. The exist systems become üblicherweise when automatic assembly machine translation MT ]), computer - espoused assembly ( computer - assistant translation CAT ]), or machines - espoused assembly machine - assistant translation MAT ]) asterisks. This lead functions by , the himself from the automatic Nachschlagefunktion in dictionaries ( at whose help me one in the computer savings dictionary the Ausgangssprache after appropriate express close by Zielsprache abgesucht becomes ) up to interactive Übersetzungshilfsleistungen varying way extend. 
But at first during the last ten years am it succeeded , the automate of the expensive Übersetzungsprozesses outfield the experimental phase herauszuführen and close by practice umzusetzen. Computer programme , the translations produce , are one useful tool and auxiliary resource , locations however no complete automated procedure dar , the the roll of the translator take on might. The global Translation system tin so the hochqualifizierten translator not replace. Admittedly enhances GTS the productivity a translator , the at do fachsprachlichen write the words operates , abridges his working hours and improves the exactness of him assembly. The system conduces likewise the time-saving make of Übersetzungsentwürfen , when it merely round it ambulates , the general mind a documents to seize.
====================
Example 2.
A. Original German text
Betr.: Studienkolleg an der Universität Essex
Sehr geehrte Frau Kaittani,
	Wir haben Ihren Antrag auf einem Platz für den oben genannten Kurs bearbeitet und ich freue mich, Ihnen mitteilen zu dürfen, dass Sie für das Studienkolleg-Programm des am 1. Oktober 1990 beginnenden Studienjahres zugelassen sind. Sind Ihre Leistungen während des Studienkollegs zufriedenstellend, können Sie im Oktober 1991 ein dreijähriges Studium mit dem Abschluss “Bachelor’s degree” im Bereich der Wirtschaftswissenschaft beginnen.
	Die Studiengebühr beträgt für das im Oktober beginnende Studienkolleg 4.500 Pfund. Darin sind alle Kosten für Unterricht, Benutzung von Geräten und Laboratorien, sowie für Prüfungen enthalten. Darin enthalten sind allerdings weder zusätzliche Kurse, die einzelne Studenten während der Semesterferien eventuell benötigen werden, noch Gebühren für Wiederholungsprüfungen für Studenten, die die vorgesehenen Prüfungen am Ende des Studienkollegs im Juni nicht bestehen.
	Für ein gewinnbringendes Studienkolleg sollte Ihr Englisch ein gutes Niveau haben. Wenn sich herausstellen sollte, dass Ihr Englisch den Anforderungen nicht genügt, behalten wir uns das Recht vor, Sie für die Zeit eines Intensivkurses, nach Möglichkeit während der Ferien, einer Sprachschule zu überweisen.
	Der Unterricht beginnt am 8. Oktober 1990. Wahrscheinlich möchten Sie jedoch an den Orientierungseinheiten und den anderen Veranstaltungen, die für die Studienanfänger in der davorliegenden Woche von Montag, dem 1. Oktober an, organisiert werden, teilnehmen.
	Ich wäre Ihnen dankbar, wenn Sie das beigefügte Formular, welches eine Garatieerklärung bezüglich der Finanzierung enthält, ausfüllen und zurückschicken würden, sobald sie sich definitiv entschlossen haben, im Oktober Ihr Studium aufzunehmen.
	Überweisen Sie uns zusammen mit dem Formular auch eine Anzahlung von 50 Pfund, die Ihnen in keinem Fall zurückgezahlt wird. Sie können entweder per Scheck oder per Bankauftrag in Sterling an die Universität Essex bezahlen.
	Wie wir Ihnen schon mitgeteilt haben, können wir Ihnen von Seiten der Universität keinerlei Unterkunft während des Studienjahres 1990/91 gewähren.
	Ich hoffe sehr, dass Sie unser Studienplatzangebot annehmen werden und dass Ihnen das Studium an der Universität Essex gefallen wird. Wenn Sie noch weitere Fragen haben, zögern Sie nicht, sich mit mir in Verbindung zu setzen.
	Mit freundlichen Grüßen,
		J. Oliver 
B. Unedited output from Globalink GTS 2.0, 1991
Betr.: Study course of lectures at the university @@Essex
Dear Mrs. @@Kaittani,
	We have processed Your proposition on a place for the above named course and I please me, You communicate to be allowed to, that You are admitted for the @@Studienkolleg – program the at the 1. October 1990 beginning study year.
	If Your performances Are during the study course of lectures satisfactory, can begin You in the October 1991 a three-year study with the conclusion “Bachelor’s @@degree” in the area of the economy sciences.
	The study fee totals for the study course of lectures beginning in the October 4.500 pound. Therein all costs are contained for instruction, use of instruments and laboratories, just as for tests. Therein contained are indeed neither additional courses, which will require individual student during the semester vacations possibly, nor fees for @@Wiederholungsprüfungen for students, who do not exist the anticipated tests at the end of the study course of lectures in the June.
	For a profitable study course of lectures Your English should have a good level. If should turn out, that Your English does not suffice the demands, we reserve us the right, You for the time a @@Intensivkurses, after possibility during the vacations, to transfer a @@Sprachschule.
	The instruction begins at that 8. Octobers 1990. Probably You would like to be organized however at the @@Orientierungseinheiten and the other events, which for the study beginners in the @@davorliegenden week of Monday, which 1. October participate in.
	I would be You grateful, if You would fill out and send back the appended form, which contains a guarantee explanation in reference to the financing, as soon as they have decided definitive, to take in in the October Your study.
	Transfer us along with the form also a down-payment by 50 pound, which is repaid You in no case. They can pay either per check or per bank order in sterling at the university @@Essex.
	As we have communicated You already, we can grant You from pages of the university no accommodation during the study year 1990 / 91.
	I hope very, that You will assume our study place offer and that the study at the university will fallen You @@Essex. If You have still further questions, do not hesitate, to sit with me in combination.
Sincerely,
	J.Oliver
C (a). Unedited output from Globalink Power Translator, 1994
Re:  @@Studienkolleg at the university of @@Essex
Dear Mrs. @@Kaittani,
We have processed your proposition for a place for the above named course and I am pleased, let you know to be allowed to do, that you are admitted for the @@Studienkolleg - program the at the 1. October 1990 beginning college years. If your performances are during the @@Studienkollegs satisfactory, can begin you in October 1991 a three-year study with the conclusion" Bachelor's @@degree  "in the area of the economics.
The tuition fee totals for the in October beginning @@Studienkolleg 4.500 pound.  Therein all costs are contained for instruction, use of instruments and laboratories, just as for tests.  Therein contained are indeed neither additional courses, which will require individual student during the vacations possibly, nor fees for @@Wiederholungsprüfungen for students, who do not exist the anticipated tests at the end the @@Studienkollegs in June.  
For a profitable @@Studienkolleg your English should have a good level.  If should turn out, that your English does not suffice the demands, we reserve the right, you for the time of a crash course, if possible during the vacations, to transfer a language school.
The instruction begins at that 8.  Octobers 1990.  Probably you would like to be organized however at the @@Orientierungseinheiten and the other events, which for the @@Studienanfänger in the @@davorliegenden week of Monday, which 1. Octobers participate in,,.  
I would be grateful to you, if you would fill out and send back the appended form, which a @@Garatieerklärung in reference to the financing contains,, as soon as they have decided definitive, to take in in October your study.
Transfer us along with the form also a down-payment of 50 pound, which is repaid you in no case.  You/They can pay either per check or per @@Bankauftrag in sterling at the university of @@Essex.
As we have informed you already, we can grant you on the part of the university no accommodation during the college years 1990 / 91.
I hope very, that you will assume our @@Studienplatzangebot and that the study will fallen you at the university of @@Essex.  If you have still further questions, do not hesitate, to sit with me in combination.
Sincerely,
@@J.  @@Oliver
C (b). Unedited output from Systran Personal 4.0, 2002 
Concerned one: Preparatory course at the University of Essex 
Dear Mrs. Kaittani,
We worked on your request on a place for the course specified above and are pleased I to be allowed to communicate to you that you are certified for the preparatory course program on 1 October 1990 of the academic year beginning. If your achievements are satisfying during the preparatory course, you can begin a three-year study in October 1991 with the conclusion "Bachelor's degree" within the field of the economic science.
The study fee amounts to for in October the preparatory course beginning 4,500 Pound. In it all costs of instruction, use of devices and laboratories, are contain as well as for examinations. Contained in it are however neither additional courses, which will possibly need individual students during term holidays, nor fees for repeat inspections for students, who do not exist the intended examinations at the end of the preparatory course in June.
	For a profitable preparatory course your English should have a good level. If it should turn out that your English does not meet the requirements, we reserve ourselves the right, you for the time of an intensive course to transfer after possibility during holidays, to a language school.
	Instruction begins on 8 October 1990. Probably would like it however to orientation units and other meetings, which for the first-year university students in the lying in front of it week of Monday, which 1 October is organized on, to participate.
 I would be grateful, if you fill out the attached form, which contains a Garatieerklaerung concerning the financing, and would send back, as soon as they decided itself definitely to take up in October your study. 
Transfer to us together with the form also a pre-payment of 50 Pound, which is paid back to you in no case. They can pay either by cheque or by bankauftrag in Sterling to the University of Essex. 
How we already communicated to you, we cannot grant you on the part of the university any accommodation during the academic year 1990/91. 
I hope much that you will accept our study available space and that the study at the University of Essex will please you. If you have still further questions, do not hesitate to contact me. 
Yours sincerely, J. Oliver
C (c). Unedited output from Babelfish, 2003
Concerned ones: 
Your request on a place for the course specified above worked on preparatory course at the University of Essex 
dear Mrs. Kaittani, 
We worked on your request on a place for the course specified above and are pleased I to be allowed to communicate to you that you are certified for the preparatory course program on 1 October 1990 of the academic year beginning. If your achievements are satisfying during the preparatory course, you can begin a three-year study in October 1991 with the conclusion "Bachelor's degree" within the field of the economic science. 
The study fee amounts to for in October the preparatory course beginning 4,500 Pound. In it all costs of instruction, use of devices and laboratories, are contain as well as for examinations. Contained in it are however neither additional courses, which will possibly need individual students during term holidays, nor fees for repeat inspections for students, who do not exist the intended examinations at the end of the preparatory course in June. 
 For a profitable preparatory course your English should have a good level. If it should turn out that your English does not meet the requirements, we reserve ourselves the right, you for the time of an intensive course to transfer after possibility during holidays, to a language school. 
Instruction begins on 8 October 1990. Probably would like it however to orientation units and other meetings, which for the first-year university students in the lying in front of it week of Monday, which 1 October is organized on, to participate. I would be grateful, if you fill out the attached form, which contains a Garatieerklaerung concerning the financing, and would send back, as soon as they decided itself definitely to take up in October your study. 
Transfer to us together with the form also a pre-payment of 50 Pound, which is paid back to you in no case. They can pay either by cheque or by bankauftrag in Sterling to the University of Essex. How we already communicated to you, we cannot grant you on the part of the university any accommodation during the academic year 1990/91. I hope much that you will accept our study available space and that the study at the University of Essex will please you. If you have still further questions, do not hesitate to contact me. 
Yours sincerely, J. Oliver 
C (d). Unedited output from FreeTranslation, 2003
Re. : studies lecture at the university Essex 
dear Ms. Kaittani, 
we worked your proposition on a place for the course named above and please me I to be allowed to announce to you that you are allowed for that studies lecture program of the studies year beginning on the 1 October 1990.  Your achievements are during the studies lecture satisfactorily, you can begin in October 1991 a three-year study with the termination "Bachelor's it degree" in the area of the economy science.  
The tuition fee amounts to pounds for the studies lectures 4,500 beginning in October.  Therein all costs are contained for instruction, use of devices and laboratories, as well as for tests.  Therein are contain neither additional courses that single students possibly will require during the semester vacations to be sure, yet fees for repetition tests for students, that the planned tests at the end the studies lecture in June do not exist. 
For a profitable studies lecture, your English should have a good level.  If turn out should, that your English does not suffice the requests, we reserve ourselves the right, you for the time of an intensive course to transfer if possible during the vacation, a Sprachschule.
The instruction begins on the 8 October 1990. Probably want however at the orientation units and the other organizations, that for the studies beginners in the before that situation week of Monday, the 1 October on, organized become, participate.  I would be gratefully if you would fill out and send back the enclosed form, which contains a Garatieerklärung regarding the financing, as soon as they decided itself definitive to receive in October your study. to you.  
Transferring you us together with the form also a down-payment of 50 pounds, that is repay you in no case.  They can either pay per check or per bank order in sterling at the university Essex.  
How we already announced you, we can grant you of pages of the university no lodging at all during the studies year 1990/91.  I hope very that you will suppose our place at university offer and that you the study is pleased at the university Essex.  If you have yet further questions, you do not hesitate to get in touch with me.  With kind regards, J.  Oliver
C (e). Unedited output from Personal Translator PT, 2002
Re: Studies lecture at Essex university
Dear Mrs Kaittani
	Being allowed to we have edited your application on a place for the course mentioned above and inform to you I am happy that you are allowed for the studies lecture program of the academic year starting on October 1st, 1990. If your performances are satisfactory during the studies lecture, you can start with three-year studies with the degree "Bachelor" of degree in the area of economics in October 1991.
	The studies charges are incipient studies lecture 4,500 pounds for this in October. All costs for lessons, use of equipment and laboratories, as well as for examinations are contained in it. Additional neither courses which perhaps will need single students during the vacation nor charges on repetition examinations are contained in it for students who don't pass the scheduled examinations on the end of the studies lecture in June, though.
	For a profitable studies lecture your English should have a good standard. Should if, that your English doesn't meet the requirements, we reserve the right to refer you according to possibility during the vacation to a language school for the time of an intensive course prove.
	The lesson starts with 1990. on October 8th. You probably would like to become, take part, however, at the orientation units and the other events, this one for the studies beginners in the before that lying week of Monday, October 1st on, organizedly.
	I would be grateful if you would fill out and send back the enclosed form which contains a Garatieerklärung regarding the financing as soon as they have decided definitely to take your studies in October.
	Also refer us together with the form a deposit of 50 pounds which is repaid to you on no account. You can pay either by check or by bank order into sterling to Essex university.
	How we informed you already have, can we grant you no accommodation on the part of the university during the academic year 1990/91?
	I hope very much that you will accept our place to study offer and that you will like the studies at Essex university. If you have even further questions, you don't hesitate to contact me.
	Yours sincerely
		J. Oliver
C (f). Unedited output from Reverso On-Line, 2003
Betr.: study lecture at the university of Essex
Dear Mrs Kaittani,
 We have treated your application(motion) for a place(square) for the course named at the top and I am glad to be allowed to inform you that you are admitted for the study lecture-program of the academic year beginning on the 1st October, 1990. If your performances(achievements) are during the study lecture satisfyingly, you can begin in October, 1991 a three-year-old study with the conclusion " Bachelor's degree " in the area of the economic science.
The study fee amounts to 4.500 pounds for the study lecture beginning in October. In it all expenses are for lessons, use of devices and laboratories, as well as contain for tests. However, in it are contained neither additional courses which will need separate students during the vacations, possibly, nor fees for repeat examinations for the student who do not exist(consist) the intended tests at the end of the study lecture in June.
For a profitable study lecture your English should have a good level. If should turn out that your English is not enough for the demands, we reserve ourselves the right(law) to transfer you for the time of a crash course, as far as possible during the holidays, a language school.
The lessons begin on the 8th October, 1990. However, likely you would like in the orientation unities and the other events, which for the university entrants in the davorliegenden week from Monday 1st October, are organized, participate.
 I would be grateful to you if you filled out the added form which contains a Garatieerklärung with regard to the financing and send back, as long as they have decided definitively to take(accept) your study in October.
 Transfer to us together with the form also a pre-payment of 50 pounds which is paid back to you in no case. They can pay either by check or by standing order in sterling to the university of Essex.
How we have already informed you, we can grant to you from the university no accommodation during the academic year in 1990/91.
 I hope very much that you will accept our place at university offer and that you will like(fall) the study at the university of Essex. If you still have other questions, do not hesitate to get in touch with me.
 Sincerely yours,
  J. More olive 
C (g). Unedited output from InterTran, 2003
considered opinion Studienkolleg on the university eat very Dear Mrs Kaittani , we have her proposal on a room for the above named course machined and self am pleased , you inform to be allowed to , the same she at the Studienkolleg - programme of the on the 1. Oct. 1990 beginning Studienjahres allowed are. are her performances during of the Studienkollegs satisfactorily , tin you in the Oct. 1991 one triennial studies with those close Bachelor's degree " in the region the economics begin. the Studiengebühr amounts at the in the Oct. beginning Studienkolleg 4.500 pound. in it are all cost at instruction , utilisation of devices and laboratories , as soon as at examinations contain. implied are admittedly neither ancillary courses , the single students during the Semesterferien possible need become , still charges at Wiederholungsprüfungen at students , the the planned examinations at the end of the Studienkollegs in the Jun. not insistence. at one profitable Studienkolleg aught your British one good level credit. when himself turn out aught , the same your British the demands not be enough , keep we us the right before , she at the time a Intensivkurses , if possible during the holiday , a vocabulary to transfer. the instruction begin on the 8. Oct. 1990. probable will she however on the Orientierungseinheiten and the the other events , the at the Studienanfänger close by davorliegenden week of Monday , the 1. Oct. at , organises become , attend.
self wäre you grateful , when she the appositional form , what a Garatieerklärung concerning the factoring abstains , fill up and remand would , as soon as she himself definite determined credit , in the Oct. your studies aufzunehmen. transfer she us together with the form also a deposit of 50 pound , the you in not any fall rebated becomes. you can either by cheque or by Bankauftrag in Sterling on the university eat pay. how we you already mitgeteilt credit , ability we you of pages the university not of any sort accommodation during of the Studienjahres 1990/91 grant. self hope very , the same she our Studienplatzangebot accept become and the same you the studies on the university eat favour becomes. when she still of other questions credit , hesitance she not , himself at to me be related to to sets. sincerely yours , J. olive
