German to English
Experimental system (METAL), in about 1975
Source
	Bruderer. Herbert E. (1978): Handbuch der maschinellen und maschinenunter-stützten Sprachübersetzung: automatische Übersetzung natürlicher Sprachen und mehrsprachige Terminologiedatenbanken. (München: Vlg. Dokumentation Saur, 1978), 260ff.
A. Original German text
Die Energieträger.
Das Antriebsgesetz des Raketenmotors.
Als Rückstossmotor kann jede Maschine bezeichnet werden, bei welcher ein Gas oder eine Flüssigkeit unter Druck mit hoher Geschwindigkeit aus einer Öffnung ausströmt und dadurch eine Reaktions- oder Rückstosskraft hervorruft. Zur Veranschaulichung dieses Vorganges diene folgendes Beispiel. In einem allseitig geschlossenen Zylinder befindet sich ein Gas unter Druck. Das Gas wird sich in dem Behälter gleichmässig verteilen und der Druck ist an allen Teilen der Innenfläche gleich gross. Die Druckwirkung lässt sich so definieren, dass das Gas aus einzelnen Molekülen besteht, welche in Wirklichkeit so klein sind, dass wir sie mit blossem Auge nicht sehen können. Wir wollen sie uns aber als Kugeln vorstellen. Zwischen diesen einzelnen Molekülen oder Kugeln herrscht eine Spannung oder Druck, welchen wir bildlich mit einer Spiralfeder darstellen können. Entsprechend einer grossen Anzahl von Molekülen befindet sich im Zylinder eine noch grössere Anzahl von Spiralfedern. Der Behälter enthält demzufolge grosse Kräfte, welche gleichmässig auf die Zylinderwandungen wirken. Die Kräfte wirken natürlich auch dann, wenn sich keine Luft in der Umgebung des Rohres befindet. Solange dieses geschlossen bleibt, besteht ein Ruhezustand.
B. Unedited output from METAL ,1975
The energy carriers.
The drive/propulsion law of the rocket motor.
Any/each/every machine/machinery where a gas or a liquid flows out from an opening under pressure with high velocity and thereby causes a reaction or recoil force/power can be called a jet propulsion motor. The following example may serve for the illustration of this process. A gas is under pressure in a cylinder closed on all sides. The gas will spread/distribute in the container uniformly and the pressure is equally great/high/extensive at all parts of the inner surface. The pressure effect can be defined in such a way that the gas consists of individual molecules which are so small in reality that we cannot see them with the naked eye. But we want to imagine them as balls/globes/spheres. A tension or pressure which we can represent figuratively with a spiral spring prevails among these individual molecules or balls/globes/spheres. An even greater/higher/more extensive number of spiral springs is corresponding to a great/high/extensive number of molecules in the cylinder. The container consequently contains great/high/extensive forces/powers which affect/act/have an effect on the cylinder walls uniformly. The forces/powers naturally have an effect even when no air exists in the environment of the tube/barrel/pipe. A state of rest exists as long as this remains closed. 
C. Unedited output from Babelfish, 2003
The sources of energy. 
The drive law of the rocket motor. 
Recoil engine each machine can be called, with which a gas or a liquid leaks out under pressure with high speed an opening and thus a reaction or a recoil force causes. For the illustration of this procedure serve the following example. In an generally closed cylinder is a gas under pressure. The gas will distribute itself evenly in the container and the pressure is equivalent large at all parts of the inner surface. The pressure effect can be defined in such a way that the gas consists of individual molecules, which are so small in reality that we cannot see them with the naked eye. We want to present it to us however as balls. Between these individual molecules or balls prevails a tension or a pressure, which we can represent figurativy with a spiral spring. According to a large number of molecules a still larger number of spiral springs is in the cylinder. The container contains therefore large forces, which affect the cylinder walls evenly. The forces work naturally, even if no air is in the environment of the pipe. As long as this remains closed, a state of rest exists. 
C (b). Unedited output from Systran Personal 4.0,  2002
The sources of energy.
The drive law of the rocket motor. 
Recoil engine each machine can be called, with which a gas or a liquid leaks out under pressure with high speed an opening and thus a reaction or a recoil force causes. For the illustration of this procedure serve the following example. In an generally closed cylinder is a gas under pressure. The gas will distribute itself evenly in the container and the pressure is equivalent large at all parts of the inner surface. The pressure effect can be defined in such a way that the gas consists of individual molecules, which are so small in reality that we cannot see them with the naked eye. We want to present it to us however as balls. Between these individual molecules or balls prevails a tension or a pressure, which we can represent figurativy with a spiral spring. According to a large number of molecules a still larger number of spiral springs is in the cylinder. The container contains therefore large forces, which affect the cylinder walls evenly. The forces work naturally, even if no air is in the environment of the pipe. As long as this remains closed, a state of rest exists.
C (c). Unedited output from FreeTranslation, March 2003
 
The energy sources.  
The Antriebsgesetz of the rockets motor.  
As a repulsion motor, each machine can be designated, with which a gas or a fluid evokes under pressure with high speed out of an opening ausströmt and through it a reaction impact or back impact.  To the illustration of this process, following example serves.  In an universally closed cylinder, a gas is located under pressure.  The gas uniformly will distribute itself in the container and is the pressure at all parts of the interior area equally large.  The pressure effect so can be defined that the gas consists of single molecules, which are so little in reality, that we cannot see it with bare eye.  We want to imagine it however as balls.  Between these single molecules or balls, a tension rules or pressure which we can represent graphically with a Spiralfeder.  Corresponding to a large number of molecules, a yet larger number of Spiralfedern is located in the cylinder.  The container contains consequently large powers which influence uniformly the Zylinderwandungen.  The powers cause naturally also then if no air is located in the environment of the tube.  As long as this remains closed, a retirement exists.  
C (d). Unedited output from Personal  Translator, 2002
The sources of energy.
The drive law of the rocket engine.
Every machine at which a gas or a liquid pours out with high speed from an opening and by which causes a reaction or Rückstosskraft under pressure can be described as a Rückstossmotor. The following example serves for the illustration of this process. There is a gas in a top-hat closed generally under pressure. The gas will spread out in the container gleichmässig and the pressure is gross at all parts of the inside at once. The pressure effect can be defined so that the gas insists from single molecules in reality which is so small that we cannot see it with a bare eye. However, we want to imagine it as balls. There is a tension or pressure which we can pictorially represent with a coil spring between these individual molecules or balls. According to a large number of molecules a still grössere number of coil springs is in the top-hat. The container contains therefore big strengths which work gleichmässig on the Zylinderwandungen. Of course the strengths work when no air is in the surroundings of the pipe, too. There is a rest condition as long as this remains closed.
C (e). Unedited output from Reverso Online, March 2003
The sources of energy.
The impulse law of the rocket motor.
Repulsion engine can be called every engine with which a gas or a liquid streams forth under pressure at high speed from an opening and thereby causes a reaction or repulsion force. The following example serves for the illustration of this occurrence. In a generally closed cylinder a gas is under pressure. The gas will evenly distribute itself in the reservoir and the pressure is equally big in all parts of the inner surface. The pressure effect can be defined so that the gas exists(consists) of separate molecules which are so small in reality that we cannot see them(her,it) with open years. We want to introduce ourselves them(her,it), however, as balls. Between these separate molecules or balls rules a tension or pressure which we can represent pictorially with a spiral spring. According to a big number of molecules a still bigger number of spiral springs is in the cylinder. The reservoir contains therefore big forces which evenly work(have an effect) on the cylinder walls. The forces work(have an effect) naturally also then if no air is in the surroundings of the tube. As long as this stays closed, a state of rest exists(consists).
C (f). Unedited output from Language Force, 1999
When Rückstossmotor can every machine marked went, at which a gas or a liquid under Druck with high velocity from a opening ausströmt and thereby a Reaktions-or Rückstosskraft hervorruft.  To the illustration this process diene following example.  In a allseitig closed cylinder judges himself a gas under Druck.  The gas becomes in the container gleichmässig was and the Druck is at all parts the Innenfläche equally big.  The Druckwirkung does not lose so definieren, dass the gas from single molecules passes, which saw in reality so small are, dass we she with blossem eye can.  We want she ourself but when Roll point out.  Between this single molecules or Roll herrscht a tightness or Druck, which we pictorial with a coil spring darstellen can.  According to a large number from molecules judges himself in the cylinder a more grössere number from coil springs.  The containers contains consequently big powers, which seem gleichmässig onto the Zylinderwandungen.  The powers seem natural also then, if himself none air in the neighbourhood of the reed judges.  As long as this remains closed, passes a standstill.  
C (g). Unedited output from InterTran, 2003
The Energieträger. 
The Antriebsgesetz of the Raketenmotors. When Rückstossmotor tin every machine asterisks become , about what one gas or a liquid under pressure at high speed outfield a opening pour out and thereby a reaction - or Rückstosskraft called. to the exemplifications this course of events serve following example. In a all around closed cylinder health himself one gas under pressure. the gas becomes himself in the container gleichmässig distribute and the pressure am at all divide the inner surface commensurate. The Druckwirkung casual himself so define , the same the gas outfield individuals molecules exist , some in reality so little are , the same we she at blossem eye not see ability. we wools she us but when bullets put forward. among this individuals molecules or bullets rules a tension or pressure , whom we figurative at a Spiralfeder represent ability. appropriate a big number of molecules health himself in the cylinder a still bigger number of Spiralfedern. The container abstains accordingly big strengths , some gleichmässig on the Zylinderwandungen have an effect. the strengths have an effect natural also then , when himself no air close by surroundings of the barrel health. as long as this closed remains , exist one dormancy.
C (h). Unedited output from Globalink Power Translator, 1994
The @@Energieträger.
The @@Antriebsgesetz the @@Raketenmotors.
As @@Rückstossmotor each machine can be marked, at which a gas or a fluid
under pressure with high speed from an opening flows out and calls forth
thereby a reaction - or @@Rückstosskraft.  For the illustration of this
process following example serve.  In an universally closed cylinder a gas
is found under pressure.  The gas will distribute itself in the tank evenly
and the pressure is immediately large at all parts of the inner surface.  The
@@Druckwirkung can be defined so, that the gas exists of individual molecules,
which are so small in reality, that we can not see them/it/her with bare eye.  
We want to present them/it/her us however as balls.  Between these individual
molecules or balls a tension or pressure rules, which we can present
graphically with a coil.  According to a large amount of molecules a still
larger amount of coils is found in the cylinder.  The tank contains
accordingly large powers, which work evenly on the @@Zylinderwandungen.  The
powers work naturally also then, if no air is found in the environment of the
reed.  As long as this closed remains, a state of rest exists.
