German to English
Experimental system (Systran), in about 1976
Trial performed for Commission of the European Communities
Source
Bruderer. Herbert E. (1978a): Handbuch der maschinellen und maschinenunter-stützten Sprachübersetzung: automatische Übersetzung natürlicher Sprachen und mehrsprachige Terminologiedatenbanken. (München: Vlg. Dokumentation Saur, 1978), 298-299
A. Original German text
Concorde vor dem Erstflug
Während das Datum des Erstflugs der Concorde immer näher rückt, nehmen die Diskussionen über die Möglichkeit und Aussichten des Überschallverkehrs, der Wechsel von Argumenten und Gegenargumenten, an Intensität zu. Die Antworten auf einige der zahllosen Fragen wird die Concorde nach Beginn der Flugerprobung bald selbst geben. In dieses Projekt wurden so grosse Mittel investiert,  und es ist so eng mit dem Prestige der Luftfahrtindustrie von zwei Nationen verknüpft, dass das Motto  der Arbeiten zwangsläufig “Eile mit Weile” heissen muss.
	Das vielleicht bedeutendste Problem betrifft die Geschwindigkeit, für die die Concorde ausgelegt ist. Eng damit verbunden ist die Wahl der aerodynamischen Formgebung und der Werkstoffe. Die grundlegenden Unterschiede zwischen der Concorde und anderen Verkehrsflugzeugen sind in vielfacher Hinsicht nur gering.  Der Kern des Problems ist vielmehr, ob dieses Flugzeug hinsichtlich Geschwindigkeit,  Konstruktionsmethoden und Gewinnpotential einen logischen Schritt in der Entwicklung darstellt. Obwohl die Entwurfsmannschaften zu wiederholten Malen um ausführliche Angaben über Nutzlastkapazität, Reichweite und andere Leistungsmerkmale ersucht wurden, haben sie sich bisher nur zu recht allgemeinen Auskünften verstehen können.
B. Unedited output from pre-operational Systran, 1976
Concorde before the first flight.
While the date of the first flight of the Concorde approaches, the discussions of the possibilities and prospects of the supersonic air-traffic, the exchanges of arguments and counter-arguments, intensify. The Concorde will give after start of the test flight soon itself the answers to some of the numerous questions. In the project such large funds were invested, and it is linked so closely to the prestige of the aviation industry of two nations, that the motto of the work necessarily has to be more haste less speed.
	The perhaps most important problem concerns the speed, for which the Concorde is designed. The choice of the airframe structure and of the materials is closely connected with that. The basic differences between the Concorde and other commercial planes are only small in many respects. The heart of the problem is rather, if this airplane represents with regard to speed, design methods and profit potential a logical step in the development. Although the design teams were asked for explicit information on payload capacity, range and other performance features repeatedly, they were able to agree up to now only to quite general information.
C (a). Unedited output from Babelfish, 2003
Concorde before the first flight 
While the date of the first flight of the Concorde moves ever closer, the discussions over the possibility and prospects of supersonic traffic, the change of arguments and counterarguments, at intensity increase. The answers to some the countless questions the Concorde will give after beginning to flight testing soon. Into this project so large means were invested, and it is so closely linked with the prestige of the aircraft industry of two nations that the slogan of the work must be called "more haste, less speed inevitable". 
The problem perhaps most meaning concerns the speed, for which the Concorde is appropriate. Connected with it the choice of the aerodynamic shaping and the materials is close. The fundamental differences between the Concorde and other airliners are only small in multiple regard. The core of the problem is rather whether this airplane represents a logical step in the development regarding speed, structural design methods and profit potential. Although the draft crews were asked to repeated marks for detailed data concerning payload capacity, range and other capability characteristics, them so far only rightfully general information to understand to have been able itself. 
C (b). Unedited output from Lycos, 2003
Concorde before the first flight
While the date of the first flight of the Concorde moves ever closer, the discussions over the possibility and prospects of supersonic traffic, the change of arguments and counterarguments, at intensity increase. The answers to some the countless questions the Concorde will give after beginning to flight testing soon. Into this project so large means were invested, and it is so closely linked with the prestige of the aircraft industry of two nations that the slogan of the work must be called "more haste, less speed inevitable".
The problem perhaps most meaning concerns the speed, for which the Concorde is appropriate. Connected with it the choice of the aerodynamic shaping and the materials is close. The fundamental differences between the Concorde and other airliners are only small in multiple regard. The core of the problem is rather whether this airplane represents a logical step in the development regarding speed, structural design methods and profit potential. Although the draft crews were asked to repeated marks for detailed data concerning payload capacity, range and other capability characteristics, them so far only rightfully general information to understand to have been able itself.
C (c). Unedited output from Systran Personal 4.0, 2002
 Concorde before the first flight
While the date of the first flight of the Concorde moves ever closer, the discussions over the possibility and prospects of supersonic traffic, the change of arguments and counterarguments, at intensity increase. The answers to some the countless questions the Concorde will give after beginning to flight testing soon. Into this project so large means were invested, and it is so closely linked with the prestige of the aircraft industry of two nations that the slogan of the work must be called "more haste, less speed inevitable". 
The problem perhaps most meaning concerns the speed, for which the Concorde is appropriate. Connected with it the choice of the aerodynamic shaping and the materials is close. The fundamental differences between the Concorde and other airliners are only small in multiple regard. The core of the problem is rather whether this airplane represents a logical step in the development regarding speed, structural design methods and profit potential. Although the draft crews were asked to repeated marks for detailed data concerning payload capacity, range and other capability characteristics, them so far only rightfully general information to understand to have been able itself.
C (d). Unedited output from FreeTranslation, 2003
Concorde before the first flight
While the date of the first flight of the Concorde always more closely moves, the discussions increase over the possibility and outlooks of the ultrasound traffic, the change of arguments and counterargument, at intensity.  The Concorde will give the answers on some of the numberless questions after start of the flight trial soon even.  Into this project, so large means became invests, and it is connected so closely with the prestige of the air travel industry of two nations, haste must that the motto of the work automatically “makes waste” hot. [or (April 2003) ... automatically "haste must that the motto of the work makes waste" of hot] 
The perhaps most important problem concerns the speed for which the Concorde is displayed.  Closely therewith connected the choice of the aerodynamic Formgebung and the materials.  The basic differences between the Concorde and other wrong airplanes are only slight in multiple regard.  The kernel of the problem is rather, whether this airplane with respect to speed, construction methods and profit potential a logical step under development represents.  Although the design teams were requested to repeated paintes around detailed details about payload capacity, range and other service features, they were able to understand itself previously only to quite general information.
C (e). Unedited output from Reverso Online, 2003
To Concord before the first flight
While the date of the first flight Concord moves much nearer, the discussions about the possibility and views of the ultrasound traffic, the changes of arguments and counterarguments increase, in intensity. Concord will give the answers to some of the innumerable questions after the beginning of the flight test soon themselves. So big means was invested in this project, and it is tied together so closely with the prestige of the aviation industry by two nations that the motto of the works must call compulsively " hurry with while ".
The perhaps most important problem concerns the speed for which Concord is laid out. Is closely connected with it the choice (election) of the aerodynamic design and the materials. The fundamental differences between Concord and other airliners are only low in multiple respect. The core of the problem is rather whether this aeroplane represents a logical step in the development with regard to speed, construction methods and profit potential. Although the draft teams were asked repeatedly of detailed information about pay load capacity, range and other performance characteristic features, up to now they could get on only according to law to general information.
C (f). Unedited output from Language Force, 1999
While the Datum assume on the Erstflugs the Concorde closer and closer moves, the discussions over the possibility and expectations the Überschallverkehrs, the changes from arguments and Gegenargumenten, Intensität too.  That answer up several the innumerable Check with becomes the Concorde after beginning the flight testing soon self gave.  In this project became so big means investiert, and it is so intimate with the prestige the aviation industry from two nations knots, dass the motto the repairs inevitable " Hurry with while " heissen muss.  
The maybe most significant problem betrifft the velocity, for that Concorde ausgelegt is.  Intimate so that is joined the election the aerodynamic shaping and the materials.  The fundamental differences between the Concorde and other airliners are in more multiple Hinsicht only small.  The Kern the Problems is rather, if this aeroplane concerning velocity, Konstruktionsmethoden and profit potential a logical step in the growth darstellt.  Although the draft teams to repeated turn about detailed details over Nutzlastkapazität, reach and other output characterstics ersucht became, was she so far only to law universe commoners informations understand can.  
C (g). Unedited output from InterTran, 2003
Concorde before the Erstflug 
during the date of the Erstflugs the Concorde always sewer hitches , take the discussions over the possibility and views of the Überschallverkehrs , the change of arguments and Gegenargumenten , at intenseness to. the answers on some the countless questions becomes the Concorde after beginning the Flugerprobung soon self give. in this project became so big means invests , and there is so narrow with those prestige the Luftfahrtindustrie of two nations associated , the same the motto the jobs inevitable " haste at while " ring up muslin.
The perhaps important problem concerns the speed , at the the Concorde trained am. narrow with it connected am the electoral the aerodynamic Formgebung and the material. the fundamental differences among the Concorde and the other airliners are in multiple with regard to only slight. the pip of the problem am rather , if this aeroplane with regard to speed Konstruktionsmethoden and Gewinnpotential a logical step close by developmental describable. although the Entwurfsmannschaften to iterated paint about detailed particulars over Nutzlastkapazität , range and other Leistungsmerkmale beseeches became , do you have himself till now only to right general information understand ability.
C (h). Unedited output from Globalink Power Translator, 1994
@@Concorde before the @@Erstflug
While the date moves the @@Erstflugs the @@Concorde always more closely, the
discussions over the possibility and prospects gain the @@Überschallverkehrs,
the exchange of arguments and counter-arguments, in intensity.  The answers on
some of the countless questions will give the @@Concorde after beginning the
@@Flugerprobung soon personally.  In this project so large means were
invested, and it is tied so narrowly with the prestige the
@@Luftfahrtindustrie by two nations, that the motto of the works must
are called inevitable  "urgency with while" .
The perhaps most important problem affects the speed, for which the @@Concorde
is explained.  Narrowly with it joined is the choice of the aerodynamic design
and the raw materials.  The fundamental differences between the @@Concorde and
other commercial machines are only slight in multiple regard.  The kernel of
the problem is rather, whether this airplane presents with regard to speed,
@@Konstruktionsmethoden and @@Gewinnpotential a logical step in the
development.  Although the @@Entwurfsmannschaften were requested repeatedly
for comprehensive statements about @@Nutzlastkapazität, range and other
features, they have been able to understand themselves up to now only to quite
general information.
