Russian to English
Operational system (Georgetown system),
at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, in October 1963
Source
Henisz-Dostert, Bozena ‘Experimental machine translation’, in: Austin, William A. (ed.) Papers in honor of Léon Dostert (The Hague: Mouton, 1967), 57-91
A. Original Russian text
Алгоритм перевода с французского языка на русский, приведенный в (2), реализован на машине Стрела при помощи 17 программ, общий объем которых около 8500 приказов, и около 2000 ячеек занимает таблицы и константы.
	Опишем порядок работы этих программ и каждую из них.
	Первая программа – программа поиска слов в словаре. Эта программа вводит в машину очередную фразу, причем с настоящее время, пока нет автоматического чтения с книги и материал вводится в машину на перфокартах, предполагается, что каждая фраза начинается с новой перфокарты и занимает целое число перфоркарт (несколько последних строк могут быть пустыми). После последнего слова фразы ставится точка, закодированная в виде двух строк. Каждое слово начинается с новой строки перфокарты. В каждой строке записываются 7 букв, причём 6 букв пишутся в разрядах адресов (по две буквы в каждом адресе), а 7 – 4 – в разрядах кода операции. Если слово занимает несколько строк, то во всех строках, кроме последней, ставится знак переноса (1 в контрольном сигнале).
	Такое размещение букв оказывается удобным при кодировке фразы, но оно не совпадает с тем, которое принято в словаре, где все буквы стоят подряд, а знак переноса ставится в последнем разряде ячейки (знак переноса в контрольном сигнале мешал бы сравнению слов). Поэтому первая программа начинает свою работу с того, что изменяет кодировку фразы, записывая слов так, как это сделано в словаре. Затем машина обрабатывает слитные артикли, разбивая каждый из них на два слова, так, например, AU превращается в A LE, DUQUEL в DE LEQUEL и т.д.  Это избавляет от необходимости обрабатывать эти слова специальным образом (как артикль – предлог). 
B. Unedited output from Georgetown system (at ORNL), October 1963
	The algorithm of a translation from a French tongue on Russian, given in (2), realized on a mawine ((a arrow)) with 17 the programs, the general volume of which about 8500 orders, and about 2000 cells occupy tables and constants.
	We describe the order of work of these programs and each from them.
	The first program – the program of a search of words in a dictionary. This program introduces into a machine the next phrase, yet at present, meanwhile not of automatic reading from a book and material it introduces into a machine on punched cards, supposes, that each phrase begins from the new punched card and occupies the whole number of the punched cards (somewhat of the last lines they can be empty). After the last word of the phrase puts a point, zakodirovanna4 in the form of two lines… Each word begins from the new line of a punched card.  In each line record 7 letters, yet 6 letters are written in the discharges of the addresses (acording to two letters in each address), and 7 – 4 – in the discharges of a code of the operation. If a word occupies somewhat lines, then in all lines, besides the latter, puts the symbol of carrying over (1 in a control signal).
	Such a disposition of letters turns out to be convenient upon kodirovke the phrase, but it does not coincide s by this, which taken in a dictionary, where all of the letters they are in succession, and the symbol of carrying over it puts in the last discharge of the cell (the symbol of carrying over in a control signal it would mix to the comparison of words). Therefore the first program begins its work s that changes kodirovku the phrases, recording a word as this made in dictionary. A then machine treats slitnye articles, breaking each from them on two words, so, for example, AU it is transformed in A LE, DUQUEL in DE LEQUEL etc. This frees from the necessity to treat these words with a special way (as an article – the pretext).
C (a). Unedited output from Babelfish, February 2003
Translation algorithm from French in the Russian, brought in (2), is realized in the machine arrow with the aid of 17 programs, whose total volume about 8500 orders, and about 2000 cells occupies tables and constants.
Let us describe the operational procedure of these programs and each of them.
First program?the program of the search for words in the dictionary. This program feeds into the machine sequential phrase, moreover the present time when there is no automatic reading from the book and material is fed into the machine on the punched cards, is assumed that each phrase begins from the new punched card and occupies integer punched card (several last lines they can be empty). After the last word of phrase is dotted, coded in the form of two lines. Each word begins from the new card row. In each line are written/recorded 7 letters, moreover 6 letters are written in the discharges/digits of addresses (two letters in each address), and 7?4?in function digits. If word occupies several lines, then in all lines, except the latter, the sign of transfer is placed (1 in the pilot signal).
Such arrangement/position of letters proves to be convenient during coding of phrase, but it does not coincide with the fact, which it is accepted in the dictionary, where all letters stand contract, but the sign of transfer is placed in the last bit of the cell (sign of the transfer in the pilot signal it would interfere with the comparison of words).Therefore the first program begins its work from the fact that changes coding phrase, writing/recording words in the manner that this is done in the dictionary. Then machine processes coalescent articles, dividing/marking off each of them into two words, thus, for instance, AU it is converted in A OF LE, DUTSUYEL in DE LETSUYEL, etc. this it does free from the need for processing these words by special means (as article?pretext/preposition). 
C (b). Unedited output from PROMT Online, February 2003
The algorithm of translation from the French language on the Russian given in (2), is realized by machine Strela by means of 17 programs which total amount about 8500 orders, and about 2000 cells borrows(occupies) tables and constants. 
We shall describe the operating procedure of these programs and each of them. 
egins with a new punched card and borrows(occupies) an integer перфоркарт (some last lines can be empty). After last word of a phrase the point coded as two lines is put. Each word begins with a new line of a punched card. In each line 7 letters enter the name, and 6 letters are written in categories of addresses (on two letters in each address), and 7 - 4 - in categories of a code of operation. If the word borrows(occupies) some lines in all lines, except for last, the hyphen (1 in a control signal) it is put.
Such accommodation of letters appears convenient at the coding of a phrase, but it does not coincide with what is accepted in the dictionary where all letters cost(stand) in succession, and the hyphen is put in last category of a cell (the hyphen in a control signal would prevent comparison of words). Therefore the first program begins the work of that changes the coding of a phrase, writing down words how it is made in the dictionary. Then the machine processes conjoint articles, breaking each of them on two words, so, for example, AU
Then the machine processes conjoint articles, breaking each of them on two words so, for example, AU turns in A LE, DUQUEL in DE LEQUEL etc. It relieves of necessity to process these words in the special image (as an article - a pretext). 
