Russian to English
Operational system (IBM-USAF Translator Mark II), 
at New York World’s Fair, 1965
Source
Dan M.Bowers and Miles B. Fisk ‘The World’s Fair machine translator’. Computer Design, April 1965, p.16-29 
A. Original Russian text
Вся эта страница является машинным переводом русского текста, который напечатан на предыдущей страница. Эта страница перевода с русского на английский не совершенна вследствие нерешенных вопросов грамматики.
	Прежде чем машина может переводить с одного языка на другой, лингвисты должны ввести в запоминающее устройство машины большое количество грамматических правил, которые повышают понятность данного перевода. Нo потому, что в языках существует значительное разнообразие и сложность, все грамматические правила любого языка не разработаны полностью в настоящее время для использования вычислительными машинами.
	Система для автоматического перевода языков должна также учитывать проблему слов, имеющих одинаковое написание, но разные значения. (В английском языке существует большое количество таких слов: can, will, type, store, fair, through, content, rule, port, even, mean и т.д.) В таких случаях лингвисты должны находить правила для разрешения конфликтов в значении слов на основании анализа речевого и других видов контекста.
	Однако, если необходимых грамматических правил нет, машина может напечатать несколько значений, разделенных чертой.
	Как видно из этой страницы, многие лингвистические проблемы машинного перевода еще не решены. Но сегодня переводы с одного языка на другой, произведенные вычислительными машинами, помогают научным работникам узнать немедленно содержание иностранной технической литературы и определить необходимость дальнейшего изучения этой информации.
	
B. Output from USAF Translator, 1965
	All this page is machine translation of Russian text, which is printed on preceding page. This page of translation from Russian into English is not perfect due to unsolved problems of grammar.
	Before machine can translate from one language into another, linguists have to introduce in memory unit of machine large quantity of grammatical rules, which increase intelligibility of given translation. But because in language exists significant variety and complexity, all grammatical rules of any language are not developed completely at present time for use by computers.
	System for automatic translation of language must also consider problem of words, having identical spellings, but different meanings. (In English language, exists large quantity of such words: can, will, type, store, fair, through, content, rule, port, even, mean etc.) In such cases linguists have to find rules for resolution of conflicts in meaning on the basis of analysis of speech and other forms of context.
	 However, if necessary grammatical rules is/are lacking, machine can print several meanings, divided by line.
	As can be seen from this page, many linguistic questions of machine translation still are not solved. But today translations from one language into another, performed by computers, help scientists to recognize immediately contents/allowance of foreign technical literature and to determine necessity of further study of this information.
C (a). Unedited output from Babelfish, 2003
This entire page is the machine transfer/translation of the Russian text, which is printed on that preceding page. This page of translation from Russian into English is not perfected as a result of the unresolved questions of grammar.
Before machine it can translating from one language to another, linguists must introduce into the storage unit a large quantity of grammatical rules, which increase the clearness of this transfer/translation. But because in the languages there is a significant variety and a complexity, all grammatical rules of any language are not developed completely at present for the use by computers.
System for machine translation of languages must also consider the problem of the words, which have identical writing, but different values. (in the English language there is a large quantity of these words:vat, shill, to type, to store, fair, to tyurougyu, chontent, control, port, yeven, mean and so forth.) In such cases the linguists must find rules for resolution of conflicts in the value of words on the basis of the analysis of vocal and other forms of context.
However, if there are no necessary grammatical rules, machine can print several values, divided by feature.
As can be seen from this page, many linguistic problems of machine transfer/translation are not yet solved. But today translations from one language into another, produced by computers, help scientific workers to learn immediately the content of foreign technical literature and to determine the need for further study of this information.
C (b). Unedited output from PROMT Online, March 2003
All this page is machine translation of the Russian text which is printed on previous page. This page of translation from Russian on English is not perfect owing to unresolved questions of grammar. 
Before the machine can translate from one language on another, linguists should enter a plenty of grammatic rules which raise clearness of the given translation into a memory of the machine. Before the machine can translate from one language on another, linguists should enter a plenty of grammatic rules which raise clearness of the given translation into a memory of the machine. Нo because in languages there is a significant variety and complexity, all grammatic rules of any language are not developed completely now for use by computers.
The system for machine translation of languages also should take into account a problem of the words having an identical spelling, but different values. (In the English language there is a plenty of such words: can, will, type, store, fair, through, content, rule, port, even, mean etc.) In such cases linguists should find rules for the resolution of conflicts in value of words on the basis of the analysis speech and other kinds of a context.
However, if necessary grammatic rules are not present, the machine can print some values, divided(shared) with fig.
Apparently from this page, many linguistic problems of machine translation are solved yet. But today translations from one language on another, made by computers, help science officers to learn(find out) immediately the maintenance(contents) of the foreign technical literature and to define(determine) necessity of the further studying of this information.
C (c). Unedited output from PROMT X, 2003
All this page is machine translation of the Russian text which is printed on previous page. This page of translation from Russian on English is not perfect owing to unresolved questions of grammar.
e. Нo because in languages there is a significant variety and complexity, all grammatic rules of any language are not developed completely now for use by computers.
The system for machine translation of languages should take into account also a problem of the words having an identical spelling, but different values. (In English language there is a plenty of such words: can, will, type, store, fair, through, content, rule, port, even, mean, etc.) In such cases linguists should find rules for the resolution of conflicts in a word meaning on the basis of the analysis speech and other kinds of a context.
	 However, if necessary grammatic rules are not present, the machine can print some values, divided(shared) with feature.
	 Apparently from this page, many linguistic problems of machine translation are solved yet. But today translations from one language on another, made by computers, help science officers to learn(find out) immediately the maintenance(contents) of the foreign technical literature and to define(determine) necessity of the further studying of this information.
