Russian to English
Operational system (Systran),
at Foreign Technology Division, USAF, in 1970
Two examples
Source
Bruderer. Herbert E. (1978a): Handbuch der maschinellen und maschinenunter-stützten Sprachübersetzung: automatische Übersetzung natürlicher Sprachen und mehrsprachige Terminologiedatenbanken. (München: Vlg. Dokumentation Saur, 1978), 221
Example 1
A. Original Russian text
Динамика конструкции летательного аппарата. Гладкий В. Ф. Иэд-во «Наука», Главная редакция физико-математической литературы. М. 1969.
Книга посвящена проблеме определения потребной несущей способности и жесткости конструкции летательного аппарата. В ней излагаются теоретические основы и практические методы расчета внутренних силовых факторов от внешних сил, действующих на аппарат в процессе эксплуатации, а даются способы выявления расчетных случаев нагружения. При этом основное внимание уделяется вопросам динамики конструкции, в частности выбору расчетных схем, составлению уравнений динамического равновесия и определению динамической реакции конструкции на воздействие внешних возмущений. Рассматриваются и те ограничения, которые налагаются условиями прочности конструкции на значения некоторых параметров двигательной установки, системы автоматического управления, комплекса наземного оборудования. а также на режим эксплуатации летательных аппаратов различных типов.
B. Output from Systran, 1970
Dynamics of.the airframe structure. Y. P. Gladkiy. Publishing house “science”, the main editorial staff of physical and matheaatical literature, M., 1969.
The book is dedicated to the problem of the determination of the required supporting power and rigidity of the airframe structure.  In it are set forth the theoretical principles and the practical methods of calculation of internal power factors from the applied forces vhich act on apparatus in the process of eksplutatsii but are given the methods of the development of the calculated load cases. In this case the primary attention is given to the questions of dynamics of construction, in particular to the selection of the design diagrams, to the compilation of the equations of dynamic equilibrim and to the determination of dynamic construction reaction to the effect of external disturbance/perturbations. Are examined those limitations which are superimposed by conditions in the structural strength at the values of some parameters of engine plant, automatic control system, complex of ground equipment, and also on mode/conditions of the operation of the flight vehicles of different types.
C. Unedited output from Promt X, 2003
Dynamics(Changes) of a design of the flying device. Smooth V.F.Ied-vo "Science", the Main edition of the physical and mathematical literature. M. 1969.
The book is devoted to a problem of definition of required bearing(carrying) ability and rigidity of a design of the flying device. In it(her) theoretical bases and practical methods of calculation of internal power(force) factors from the external forces working on the device while in service are stated, and ways of revealing of settlement cases нагружения are given. Thus the basic attention is given questions of dynamics(changes) of a design, in particular a choice of settlement circuits, drawing up of the equations of dynamic balance and definition of dynamic reaction of a design on influence of external indignations. Those restrictions which are imposed by conditions of durability of a design on values of some parameters of impellent installation, systems of automatic control, a complex of the ground equipment are considered(examined) also. And also on a mode of operation of flying devices of various types.
D. Unedited output from Systran Personal 5.0, Jan. 2005
Dynamics of airframe structure. Smooth v. f. [Ied]- in “science”, the main editorial staff of physico mathematical literature. M. 1969.
The book is dedicated to the problem of the determination of the required bearing capacity and hardness of airframe structure. In it theoretical bases and practical methods of calculation of internal power factors from the external forces, which act on the apparatus in the process of operation, are presented, and the methods of the development of calculated load cases are given. In this case primary attention is paid to questions of the dynamics of construction, in particular to the selection of design diagrams, to the composition of the equations of dynamic equilibrium and to the determination of the dynamic reaction of construction to the action of external disturbances. Are examined those limitations, which are assigned by the conditions of structural strength at the values of some parameters of engine installation, system of automatic control, complex of ground equipment. and also to the regime of the operation of the flight vehicles of different types.
==========================
Example 2
A. Original Russian text
Зa рубежом
В  братском  союзе социалистических стран
На XI съезде ВСРП
БУДАПЕШТ, 19. (ТАСС). На XI съезде ВСРП продолжается обсуждение отчетного доклада Центрального Комитета, с которым выступил Первый секретарь ЦК ВСРП Я. Кадар.
Вчера на вечернем заседании выступил член Политбюро ЦК ВСРП. Председатель Совета Министров ВНР Б. Фок. Он рассказал об итогах нынешней пятилетки. Выразив уверенность, что трудящиеся Венгрии успешно выполнят намеченные народнохозяйственные задачи, он подверг критике некоторые недостатки в работе правительства и отдельных ведомств. Председатель Совета Министров ВНР подчеркнул, что социалистическая экономическая интеграция имеет жизненно важное значение для развития народного хозяйства Венгрии. Наши достижения в развитии Венгрии в будущем в равной степени неразрывно связаны с сотрудничеством со странами — членами СЭВ. и прежде всего с Советским Союзом. Мы и далее будем стремиться прилагать все усилия для ускорения социалистической экономической интеграции.
В центре нашей внешнеполитической деятельности, продолжал далее Б. Фок, находится укрепление дружбы с другими странами социалистического содружества. Мы стремимся к развитию связей между нашими странами на основе принципа пролетарского интернационализма, к укреплению единства социалистического содружества, политического, экономического, культурного и военного сотрудничества. Это служит достижению наших международных целей, дальнейшему укреплению позиций общественного прогресса, национальной независимости и мирз Мы уделяем особое внимание упрочению братских связей с Советским Союзом. СССР — это главный оплот мира, социализма, всех сил, борющихся за мир и прогресс. Он является нашим главным союзником подлинным другом, готовым помочь всегда и во всем. Отношения между двумя странами продолжали расширяться и обогатились новыми формами.
В результате упорных и скоординированных усилий социалистических стран, прежде всего в результате осуществления Программы мира, принятой на XXIV съезде КПСС, за истекшие годы в международной обстановке произошли чрезвычайно важные положительные изменения. Однако мы не можем забывать о том, что вследствие происков наиболее реакционных империалистических группировок в мире и сегодня еще существует много очагов кризиса.
Правительство Венгрии, которая является достойным членом Варшавского Договора, стремится, сотрудничая со всеми прогрессивными странами мира, сделать процесс разрядки необратимым, подчеркнул в заключение Е. Фок
* * *
XI съезд ВСРП продолжает работу.
B. Output from Systran, 1970
BEYOND BOUNDARY.
In the fraternal union of the socialist countries.
At XI congress/descent of VSRP.
Budapest, 19 (Tass).  At XI congress/descent of VSRP continues the consideration of the summary report of the central committee with which came forward the first secretary of the CC VSPP Ya. Kadar.
Yesterday at evening session came forward the member of the Politbureau the CC VSRP.  Chairman of the Council of Ministers of VNR Ye. Fok.  It related the sums of the present five-year plan.  After expressing confidence, that workers Hungary successfully will satisfy the outlined People’s economic tasks, it it subjected to criticism some deficiency/lacks in the work of government and separate departments.  The chairman of the Council of Ministers of VNR emphasized that the socialist economic integration has vital value for developing the national economy of Hungary.  Our achievements in the development of Hungary in budushem to equal degree are inseparably connected with collaboration with the countries  -- the members of COMECON [- Council for Mutual Economic Assistance], and first of all with the Soviet Union.  We further will attempt to apply all effort/forces for the acceleration of socialist economic integration.
In the center of our foreign policy activity, continued further Ye. Fok, is located strengthing [sic] friendship with other socialist block countries.  We approach the development of the communication/connections between our countries on the basis of the principle of proletarian internationalism, for strengthing the unity of socialist collaboration, political, economic, cultural and military collaboration.  This serves the achievement of our international purposes, further strengthing the positions of public progress, national independence and world.  We give special attention to the strengthening of fraternal communication/connections with the Soviet Union.  The USSR -- this is the main stronghold of world, socialism, all forces, which fight for peace and progress.  It is our main ally, authentic friend, prepared/finished to help always, also, in all.  Relations between two countries continued to be enlarged and were enriched by new forms.
As a result of the persistent and coordinated effort/forces of the socialist countries, first of all as a result of the implementation program world, accepted by XXIV congress of the cpsu, as the elapsing years in the international situation occurred extremely important positive changes.  However,, we cannot clog about the fact that as a result of the intrigues of the most reactionary imperialistic groupings in the world and today still there are many foci of crisis.
The government of Hungary, which is the worthy term of the Warsaw Pact, attempts, collaborateeing [sic] with all progressive countries of world, to make a process of discharging irreversible, emphasized in conclusion Ye. Fok.
C. Unedited output from Promt X, 2003
In the brotherly union of the socialist countries
ВСРП
BUDAPEST, 19. (TASS). At XI congress ВСРП discussion of the report of the Central Committee with which the First secretary of Central Committee VSRP J.Kadar has acted proceeds.
СЭВ. And first of all with Soviet Union. We also shall aspire to make further all efforts for acceleration of socialist economic integration.
мирз we pay special attention to consolidation of brotherly communications(connections) with Soviet Union. The USSR is a main stronghold of the world, socialism, all forces struggling for the world and progress. It(he) is our main ally the original friend, ready to help always and in all. Attitudes(relations) between two countries continued to extend and were enriched with new forms.
As a result of the persistent and coordinated efforts of the socialist countries, first of all as a result of realization of the Program of the world accepted at XXIV congress of the CPSU, for the expired years in an international situation there were extremely important positive changes. However we cannot forget that owing to intrigues of the most reactionary imperialistic groupings in the world and today still there are many centers of crisis.
The government of Hungary which is a worthy member of the Warsaw Contract, aspires, cooperating with all progressive countries of the world to make process of discharge irreversible, has emphasized in conclusion of E.Fok
* * *
ВСРП continues work.
D. Unedited output from Systran Personal 5.0, Jan. 2005
[Z]a by the boundary
In the fraternal union of the socialist countries
On XI the congress OF VSRP $$RTVSRP - HUNGARIAN SOCIALIST WORKERS' PARTY
BUDAPEST, 19. (TASS). On XI the congress OF VSRP $$RTVSRP - HUNGARIAN SOCIALIST WORKERS' PARTY continues the consideration of the summary report of the central committee, with which appeared the first secretary OF TSK OF VSRP $$RTVSRP - HUNGARIAN SOCIALIST WORKERS' PARTY 4. Kadar.
Yesterday the term of the Politbureau OF TSK OF VSRP $$RTVSRP - HUNGARIAN SOCIALIST WORKERS' PARTY came out at the evening session. Chairman of the council of ministers OF VNR b. Foch. It described about the sums of the present five-year plan. After expressing confidence, that the workers of Hungary will successfully accomplish the outlined national-economic tasks, it subjected some deficiencies in the work of government and individual departments to criticism. The Chairman of the council of ministers OF VNR emphasized that the socialist economic integration has vitally important value for the development of the national economy of Hungary. Our achievements in the development of Hungary in the future to the equal degree are inseparably connected with the collaboration with the countries— with terms COMECON $$RTS3V - COUNCIL FOR MUTUAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE. and, first of all, with the Soviet Union. We will further attempt to make all efforts for accelerating the socialist economic integration.
In the center of our foreign-policy activity, continued further b. Foch, is located strengthening friendship with other socialist bloc countries. We strive for the development of the connections between our countries on the basis of the principle of proletarian internationalism, to strengthening of the unity of socialist collaboration, political, economic, cultural and military collaboration. This serves achieving our international goals, to further strengthening of the positions of public progress, national independence and [mirz] we pay special attention to strengthening fraternal connections with the Soviet Union. THE USSR— this is the main stronghold of peace, socialism, all forces, which are fought for the peace and the progress. It is our major ally authentic friend, ready to help always and in everything. The relations between two countries continued to be enlarged and they were enriched by new forms.
The as a result persistent and coordinated efforts of the socialist countries, first of all as a result the implementations of the program of peace, accepted for XXIV the Congress OF CPSU $$RTKPSS - COMMUNIST PARTY OF THE SOVIET UNION, in the past years in the international situation occurred extremely important positive changes. However, we cannot forget about the fact that as a result of the intrigues of most reaction imperialistic groupings in the world and today still there are many centers of crisis.
The government of Hungary, which is the worthy term of the Warsaw Pact, it attempts, collaborating with all progressive countries of peace, to make a process of discharging that not reversed, emphasized in conclusion e. Foch
* * *
XI the congress OF VSRP $$RTVSRP - HUNGARIAN SOCIALIST WORKERS' PARTY continues work.
