Spanish-English
Commercial system: PC-Translator (Linguistic Products, Inc.
in 1989
Source: Example sent by Linguistic Products Inc. to John Hutchins in 1989.
A. Original Spanish text
Felicitaciones con tu PC TRANSLATOR. Es un producto extraordinario de la tecnología moderna. Anteriormente, la traducción de idiomas fue la tarea exclusiva de traductores profesionales. Con PC TRANSLATOR, todo eso se ha cambiado. Máquinas nunca reemplazarán por completo al hombre en la traducción de idiomas. Pero personas con experiencia en el uso de PC TRANSLATOR pueden reducir considerablemente el tiempo que gastan en traducciones rutinarias.
PC TRANSLATOR tiene varias aplicaciones importantes dentro del comercio y la industria. La exportación exige métodos eficientes para superar las barreras de los idiomas, que separan todas las empresas en este campo.  Un negocio internacional se maneja por correspondencia con ofertas, ordenes de compra y facturas, etc.  La mayoría de ellos tiene que ser traducida, igual como los manuales técnicos y documentos similares.
Una ganancia se convierte fácilmente en una perdida, si estos documentos están atrasados por motivo de traducción.  PC TRANSLATOR es un herramienta para mejorar la productividad de los traductores y así evitar demoras.
La calidad de las traducciones se mejora con la incorporación de palabras individuales y frases completas en los diccionarios.  Una vez incorporadas las terminologías especializadas de diferentes industrias o empresas, las traducciones de PC TRANSLATOR serán siempre totalmente en conformidad con ellas.
La traducción no es perfecta y debe ser corregida, pero es evidencia de un nuevo logro. Con PC TRANSLATOR puedes reducir la labor y el tiempo gastado en la traducción de idiomas. Para lograr eso debes estudiar cuidadosamente el manual de instrucciones. No olvides que se requiere un esfuerzo sincero de ti para poder disfrutar de todos los beneficios de PC TRANSLATOR.  Te deseamos mucho éxito.
B. Output from PC-TRANSLATOR, 1989
Congratulations with your PC-TRANSLATOR. It is an extraordinary product of modern technology.  Previously, language translation was the exclusive task of professional translators.  With PC-TRANSLATOR, all that has changed.  Machines will never completely replace man in language translation.  But persons with experience in the use of PC-TRANSLATOR can significantly reduce the time they spend in routine translations. 
	PC-TRANSLATOR has various important applications within commerce and industry.  Export requires efficient methods to surmount the language barriers, that separate all the companies in this field. An international business is managed by correspondence with offers, purchase orders and invoices, etc.. The majority of them has to be translated, just like technical manuals and similar documents.
A profit is easily converted to a loss, if these documents are delayed because of translation.  PC-TRANSLATOR is a tool to improve the productivity of the -translators and thus avoid delays.
The quality of the translations is improved with the incorporation of individual words and complete phrases in the dictionaries. Once the specialized terminologies of different industries or companies have been incorporated, the translations of PC-TRANSLATOR will always be totally in agreement with them.
The translation is not perfect and must be corrected, but is evidence of a new accomplishment.  With PC-TRANSLATOR you can reduce the labor and the time spent in language translation.  To accomplish that you must carefully study the instruction manual.  Please remember that it requires a sincere effort from you to be able to enjoy all of the benefits of PC-TRANSLATOR. We wish you good luck.
C. Unedited output from Systran Personal 4.0, 2002
Congratulations with your PC TRANSLATOR. It is an extraordinary product of the modern technology. Previously, the translation of languages was the exclusive task of professional translators. With PC TRANSLATOR, all that one has changed. Machines never will replace completely to the man in the translation of languages. But people with experience in the use of PC TRANSLATOR can reduce the time considerably whom they spend in routine translations.
PC TRANSLATOR has several important applications within the commerce and the industry. The export demands efficient methods to surpass the barriers of the languages, that separate all the companies in this field. An international business is handled by correspondence with supplies, you order of purchase and invoices, etc. Most of them it must be translated, equal like technical manual and similar documents.
A gain becomes a lost one easily, if these documents are in favor slow of reason for translation. PC TRANSLATOR is a tool to improve the productivity of the translators and thus to avoid delays.
The quality of the translations improvement with the incorporation of individual words and complete phrases in the dictionaries. Once incorporated the specialized terminologies of different industries or companies, the translations of PC TRANSLATOR will be always totally in conformity with them.
The translation is not perfect and must be corrected, but it is evidence of a new profit. With PC TRANSLATOR you can reduce to the work and the time spent in the translation of languages. In order to obtain that you must study the manual carefully. You do not forget that a sincere effort of you is required to be able to enjoy all the benefits of PC TRANSLATOR. We wished much success you.
